All the code of CMAQ and its adjoint is release under the following license:

Portions of Models-3/CMAQ software were developed or based on information from
various groups: Federal Government employees, contractors working on a United
States Government contract, and non-Federal sources (including research
institutions).  These research institutions have given the Government
permission to use, prepare derivative works, and distribute copies of their
work in Models-3/CMAQ to the public and to permit others to do so.  EPA
therefore grants similar permissions for use of the Models-3/CMAQ software, but
users are requested to provide copies of derivative works to the Government
without restrictions as to use by others.  Users are responsible for acquiring
their own copies of commercial software associated with Models-3/CMAQ and for
complying with vendor requirements.  Software copyrights by the MCNC
Environmental Modeling Center are used with their permissions subject to the
above restrictions.

Additionally, the code that I (Lucas A. J. Bastien) added to the original code
of the adjoint of CMAQ v4.5 may be released under the terms of the General
Public License (GPL), Version 3 whenever it does not conflict with the above
license. Whenever it conflicts with the above license, the above license
prevails. For more information on the GPL, Version 3, please visit:
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/licenses.html.

If a file or a piece of code (including in versions archived in this git
repository tree, no matter which branch) says that the corresponding code is
released under the GPL, and if the GPL for this file or piece of code conflicts
with the above licence (the one from EPA), then the above license (the one from
EPA) prevails over the GPL, no matter what the file or piece of code says.

Why this mess? Because I used to assign the GPL license to all the code I
wrote, but then realized it might conflict with the above license (the one from
EPA).

Now you have all the information you need to share the code according to the
appropriate license!
